techniques:
    grill:When grilling food, the heat source comes from the bottom.        Think cooking a steak on a grill — the heat only comes from the       coals underneath the grate. Grilling usually involves an open         flame, but can also be done with a grill pan on a stovetop. Foods     are cooked by heating the grill grates, which gives ingredients the   charred, grilled lines.  
    pan-fry: Pan-frying is done by adding enough fat to a hot pan so that   the fat comes up about half an inch up the side of the pan. Food is   partially submerged in the fat and then flipped over so the other     side can cook. An example is a crabcake, which is cooked until        golden brown on one side and then turned over so the other side can   brown. 
    deep-fry: Deep-frying is when food is completely submerged in a hot fat. The result is a crispy, golden brown exterior and a fully cooked interior.  
    saute: Sautéed foods are cooked in a thin layer of fat over medium-high heat, usually in a frying pan on the stovetop. Foods are just cooked until tender.
     boil: Typically, foods are boiled in water, which reaches a boil at 212 degrees Fahrenheit. Foods are completely submerged in the boiling liquid and cooked until tender, then drained. 
       roast:  Roasting is generally the same as baking, but refers more to proteins and vegetables. Roasting is common to do in the oven and items are cooked until golden brown and tender. The most common item that's roasted is a turkey on Thanksgiving.
     bake:  Baking is similar to roasting, but refers more to breads, pastries, and other sweet items. Most items are baked in the oven until cooked through.
     sear:  Searing is done with minimal amounts of fat over high heat. Searing foods gives them a brown, caramelized outside, while not cooking the interior fully. Think searing a thin piece of fish so that is has crispy skin and a delicate, tender inside.   
     poach: To poach food, it should be completely submerged in liquid that is between 160 and 180 degrees. The food item remains in the liquid until fully cooked through and tender.
    simmer: When simmering food, it is usually cooked with a liquid in a pot on the stovetop. It is done over low heat and tiny bubbles should appear on the surface. 
    broil: Broiling is similar to grilling, except the heat source comes from the top. It is usually done in an oven by adjusting the setting to broil. Broiling happens very quickly and it’s best to watch the food carefully when broiling so it does not burn. Getting the cheese on top of lasagna golden brown and crispy is an example of broiling.  
    steam: To cook an ingredient with steam, food is usually placed in a separate steamer over hot liquid. The food is cooked by the steam from the liquid and does not come in contact with the liquid. 
    blanch: Blanching is similar to boiling, except the food is par-cooked and then submerged immediately in an ice-bath to stop the cooking process.
    braise: Braising is a combination cooking method that first involves sautéing or searing an item, then simmering it in liquid for a long cooking period until tender. Foods that are braised are often larger proteins like pot roasts and poultry legs.
    stew: Stewing is similar to braising because the ingredient is first seared and then cooked in liquid, but it uses smaller ingredients like diced meats and vegetables. 
    stir fry: To cook food quickly by cutting into small pieces and stirring constantly in a lightly oiled wok or frying pan over high heat.

terms:
    al dente: In Italian the phrase means “to the tooth”and is a term used to describe the correct degree of doneness when cooking pasta and vegetables. The food should have a slight resistance when biting into it, but should not be soft or overdone or have a hard center.

    baste: To spoon, brush, or squirt a liquid like meat drippings, stock, barbecue sauce, or melted butter on food while it cooks to prevent drying out and to add flavor.

    bouquet garni: A bundle of herbs, tied together or placed together in a piece of cheesecloth, used to enhance the flavor of a soup or stew. The classic combination of herbs is parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, but different herbs can be used to go with different dishes. The bundle is removed before serving.

    dredge: When you lightly coat food to be pan fried or sautéed typically with flour, cornmeal, or breadcrumbs.

    mirepoix: A mixture of diced carrots, onions, celery and herbs that has been sautéed in butter or oil and used to season soups and stews. 
    
    mise en place: A French term for having all your ingredients prepped and ready to go before starting to cook. That means everything is cleaned, peeled, chopped, diced, measured out, whatever is necessary to get the ingredients ready prior to preparing your dish.
    
    resting: Removing meat or poultry from heat before reaching ideal internal temperatures to allow the redistribution of juices in the meat. This helps the meat retain its juices, evens out temperature and doneness, and makes it easier to carve.
    
    zest: Refers to the outer skin of citrus fruits such as oranges, lemons, and limes. The colored part of the skin contains natural oils that provide aroma and flavor. Small shavings of the skin are added to various dishes to intensify the required citrus flavors. The white portion of the skin, or pith, which lies just below the zest, should not be used because of its bitterness.

mother sauces:
    bechamel, espagnole, hollandaise, tomato, veloute

basic knife safety:

    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=20gwf7YttQM

basic knife cuts:
    baton: The baton type of cuts are the largest stick-cut you can cut. It is used for crudites and for presentation purposes. While not used as much as the rest, it is the foundation for the more common large dice. Dimensions: 1/2 in X 1/2 in X 2-1/2 in.

      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vsaGuKvFhNQ  24

    large dice: The large dice types of cuts are primarily used for stews, long-cooking dishes and for mirepoix in stocks. The large dice is important, because it is relatively quick, has a great imposing nature and looks professional. When cutting a large dice, you will tend to have a higher waste when trying to get nicely cut pieces if you square off the vegetable. Remember when doing any cutting or dicing to use the method best suited for your dish. Dimensions: 1/2 in X 1/2 in X 1/2 in.

    batonnet: Start with squaring off your item, slicing it to the thickness desires, and then going from there. The batonnet is used when serving a larger portion of an item such as a vegetable side, to gain height in your dish, or to provide imposing linear appeal to an otherwise linear-absent dish. Dimensions: 1/4 in X 1/4 in X 2 in.

      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vsaGuKvFhNQ 26

    medium dice: The medium dice type of cuts are derived from the batonnet and the only added step is slicing the batonnet to produce cubes. Dimensions: 1/4 in X 1/4 in X 1/4 in.

    julienne: The julienne is a type of cut that is stick-shaped and very thin. Cut from a squared off item, you will then slice that item length-wise at a thickness of 1/16 in leaving you with thin rectangular cuts. Then, take the thin slices and apply the same technique. You will end up with Julienne, or matchstick cuts. Dimensions: 1/16in X 1/16in X 2in.

      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X-00XfoiHgg  27
    
    brunoise: The brunoise dice is the smallest dice you can have. While you can mince to a smaller dimension, this method refers to the smallest uniform size available for dicing. This method is simple and only adds an additional step to the Julienne method. Take your julienne cuts and bunch them up with your hand. Then cut the julienne into equally shaped dice. While simple, it does take a long time to master. Dimensions: 1/16 in X 1/16 in X 1/16 in.
    
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_6mUDqp2MsM 28

    
    mince: Smaller than a brunoise is a mince. If a brunoise is 1/16 of an inch, then a mince is approximately half that size, closer to 1/32nd of an inch. But because it’s so fine, it also tends to be less precise.

    chiffonade: The chiffonade is used when slicing very thin items such as herbs or leaf vegetables such as spinach. Cutting en chiffonade is a really simple process. Start by stacking the items you are looking to slice. Then roll up the items, producing a cigar-shaped roll. Once it’s rolled, start slicing to     produce a nice chiffonade suitable for garnishing and other purposes.

    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GAIkrlTL-5M 30

    
    
    Mother Sauces:

    bechamel: Also known as white sauce, it is made from a white roux. It is, since the seventeenth century and on, one of the mother sauces of French cuisine. It is used as the base for many other sauces.

    espagnole: It is one of the five mother sauces that are the basis of sauce-making in classic French cooking. Espagnole has a strong taste and is rarely used directly on food. As a mother sauce it serves as the starting point for many derivatives. The basic method of making espagnole is to prepare a very dark brown roux, to which veal stock or water is added, along with browned bones, pieces of beef, vegetables, and various seasonings. This blend is allowed to slowly reduce while being frequently skimmed. The classic recipe calls for additional veal stock to be added as the liquid gradually reduces, but today water is generally used instead. Tomato paste or pureed tomatoes are added towards the end of the process, and the sauce is further reduced.

    hollandaise: Also referred to as Dutch sauce, it is an emulsion of egg yolk, liquid butter, water and lemon juice, or a white wine or vinegar reduction, whisked together over the low heat of a double boiler. Additional salt, white pepper and/or cayenne pepper is used for seasoning. Hollandaise is one of the five mother sauces in the French haute cuisine.

    tomato: Also known as Neapolitan sauce, refers to any of a very large number of sauces made primarily from tomatoes, usually to be served as part of a dish. Tomato sauces are common for meat and vegetables, but they are perhaps best known as sauces for pasta dishes.

    velouté:  This is one of the five sauces of French cuisine that were designated the five mother sauces. The term velouté is from French meaning velvet. In preparing a velouté sauce, a light stock, one in which the bones used have not been previously roasted, such as chicken or fish stock, is thickened with a blond roux. Thus the ingredients of a velouté are equal parts roux and a light chicken or fish stock, with some salt and pepper to season as needed.

        roux: A mixture of flour and fat that is cooked over low heat and used to thicken soups and sauces. There are three types of roux: white,blond, and brown. White and blond roux are both made with butter and used in cream sauces while brown roux can be made with either butter or the drippings from what you are cooking and is used for darker soups and sauces.
    
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jCx6CGBTNPk  36